chore(server-events): adding integration documentation (#843)
front-commerce/developers.front-commerce.com: docs/02-guides/server-side-events/create-an-integration.mdx

<p>{frontMatter.description}</p>

> This guide will help you to create an integration that will dispatch events to external services.

Reviewer: **issue:** duplicate from the Front-matter description

![2024-02-08_16-01](https://github.com/front-commerce/developers.front-commerce.com/assets/75968/8e164990-ecb9-4554-b569-a07dc244b6ca)

**suggestion:** remove

> We will create a new integration to dispatch events to [Wehook.cool](https://webhook.cool/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will create a new integration to dispatch events to [Webhook.cool](https://webhook.cool/).
```

:::info

> Front-Commerce already provide a Webhook integration. This guide will show you how to create an integration from scratch. And will explain you the basics of integrations so you can write your own

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Front-Commerce already provides a Webhook integration. This guide will show you how to create an integration from scratch. And will explain you the basics of integrations so you can write your own.
```

Reviewer 2: I would remove the "Front-Commerce already provides a Webhook integration." all together. it does not make much sense unless you link to the Webhook integration with documentation.

:::

## Create an integration file

> First you need to create an integration file let's say we will call our integration Coolwebhook
> 
> Let's create a new file in `app/server-evets/integrations/CoolWebhookIntegration.ts`

Reviewer: **nitpick:** both sentences seems related.

**suggestion:** group them.

```suggestion
First you need to create a file for the integration. For this example, we will name our integration `Coolwebhook` and will create a new file in `app/server-events/integrations/CoolWebhookIntegration.ts`.
```

> Integrations are classes that extends `Integration interface`, let's make a simple copy paste of this code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Integrations classes must implement the `Integration` interface from `@front-commerce/core/server-events/integrations`. Copy this code in the newly created file:
```

```ts title="app/server-evets/integrations/CoolWebhookIntegration.ts"
import type { Integration } from "@front-commerce/core/server-events/integrations";

export default class CoolWehbookIntegration implements Integration {
  compatibleEvents: string[] | "*" = "*";

  webhookId: string;

  constructor(webhookId: string) {
    this.webhookId = webhookId;
  }

  handle(messageId: string, payload: any) {
    console.log(messageId);
    console.log(payload)
  }
}
```

In this class, we have four entities :

> - `compatibleEvents`: this indicates which events the integration will handle, it can be `*` to handle all events or an array of string that contains compatible events.

Reviewer 2: It would be good to describe or link to existing events, so that integrators know what `compatible events` is referring to

> - `webhookId`: this is the id of WebhookCool.

Reviewer: **nitpick:** I haven't understood what it meant at first read

**suggestion:** provide an example

```suggestion
- `webhookId`: this is the id of the unique WebhookCool url to use (e.g: `hissing-dentist-09` for https://webhook.cool/at/hissing-dentist-09)
```

> - `webhookId`: this is the id of WebhookCool.

Reviewer 2: Same as https://github.com/front-commerce/developers.front-commerce.com/pull/843/files#r1483132197, I don't think we should document basic javascript, this is not extending the original interface in any way, so there's no need to mention it. The only things to mention here is the [Integration interface](https://gitlab.blackswift.cloud/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/blob/main/packages/core/server-events/types/integration.ts#L1-4)

> - `constructor`: it will allow us to implement logic when class is created, here, we will store the webhookId of WebhookCool into our class.

Reviewer: **nitpick:** that's not specific to this integration. It's JS code, I think explaining it isn't useful.

**suggestion:** remove this bullet point

```suggestion
```

- `handle`: this is the method that will be called when an event is received.

> For your integrations, only `compatibleEvents` and `handle` are required, the `webhookId` and the constructor is an example of custom method and properties that you can implement into your integrations.

Reviewer 2: Remove any reference to` webhookId`, you can show this in the example code when needed, but you don't need to explain it.

## Write specific code for your integration

> All the event processing part will be done in the `handle` method. So we need to write all the code to send event to external services here.

Reviewer 2: This seems like it's already explained in the `handle` docs

> - `handle`: this is the method that will be called when an event is received.

Remove this, or replace it with what we are aiming to achieve at this step, something like 

> Now we need to implement to logic which sends the event to external service

> Since Webhook.cool is a basic services, we ca use a simple fetch to send the event :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since Webhook.cool is a minimalist services, we can use a single `fetch` call to send the event :
```

```ts title="app/server-evets/integrations/CoolWebhookIntegration.ts"
import type { Integration } from "@front-commerce/core/server-events/integrations";

export default class CoolWehbookIntegration implements Integration {
  compatibleEvents: string[] | "*" = "*";

>   webhookId: string;

Reviewer 2: Here you can add a comment instead of the previous documentation
```suggestion
  webhookId: string; // this is the id of the unique WebhookCool url to use (e.g: `hissing-dentist-09` for https://webhook.cool/at/hissing-dentist-09)
```

  constructor(webhookId: string) {
    this.webhookId = webhookId;
  }

  handle(messageId: string, payload: any) {
    // highlight-start
    fetch(`https://${this.webhookId}.webhook.cool`, {
      method: "POST",
      body: JSON.stringify(payload),
    });
    // highlight-end
  }
}
```

> Remark that `webhookId` is used into the fetch called URL.

Reviewer 2: Again, that's a lot of explanation for the `webhookId`, I think the inline comment will suffice.

:::info

Here, we are posting the raw event details to the webhook, but feel free to manipulate it's data freely to adapt it to your specific integration.

> You'll find in the [FAQ](/docs/3.x/guides/server-side-events/faq#what-are-the-data-returned-by-the-server-events) the data format for the payload object

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can find the data format for the payload object in the [FAQ](/docs/3.x/guides/server-side-events/faq#what-are-the-data-returned-by-the-server-events) section.
```

:::

## Register your integration

Now that our integration is created, we have to register it in Front-Commerce.

> To do this, go to the `app/config/serverEvents.ts` file and register your new integration like this :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do this in a newly created app, you can register your new integration in the `app/config/serverEvents.ts` configuration file:
```

```ts title="app/config/serverEvents.ts"
import { ConsoleIntegration } from "@front-commerce/core/server-events/integrations";
// highlight-next-line
import CoolWehbookIntegration from "../server-events/integrations/CoolWehbookIntegration";

export default {
  redis: {
    host:
      process.env.FRONT_COMMERCE_SERVER_EVENT_REDIS_HOST ||
      process.env.FRONT_COMMERCE_CLOUD_REDIS_HOST ||
      process.env.FRONT_COMMERCE_REDIS_HOST ||
      "127.0.0.1",
    port:
      process.env.FRONT_COMMERCE_SERVER_EVENT_REDIS_PORT ||
      process.env.FRONT_COMMERCE_CLOUD_REDIS_PORT ||
      process.env.FRONT_COMMERCE_REDIS_PORT ||
      6379,
  },
  integrations: [
    new ConsoleIntegration(),
    // highlight-next-line

>     new CoolWehbookIntegration("XXXXXXXXXXXXXX"),

Reviewer 2: Use the webhook id from your image, `tight-kitchen-57` this removes any confusion.
```suggestion
    new CoolWehbookIntegration("tight-kitchen-57"),
```

Reviewer 2: As you explain this lower in the info section, you can decide if you keep it like this, but then add the `tight-kitchen-57` into the info section, or if you replace it all together

  ],
};
```

:::info

> You need to replace `XXXXXXXXXXXXXX` with your Webhook ID, you can find it on the [Webhook.cool](https://webhook.cool/) page

Reviewer 2: Based on my previous comment, include the id here `tight-kitchen-57` so they know exactly what to use.

![Webhook cool code](assets/webhook_cool_code.png)

:::

## Test your integration

We are now ready to test your integration !

Please be sure to read the [run local Server Event Worker guide](/docs/3.x/guides/server-side-events/faq#how-can-i-test-server-events-in-local-environment) before testing your integration.

> Then let's try to place an order and check out the [Webhook.cool](https://webhook.cool/) page. The OrderPlaced event is natively implemented in Front-Commerce.

Reviewer: **thought:** shouldn't we use the Test event for this? It's easier than doing a full checkout (and soon we'll have simpler events triggered).

Reviewer 2: I agree, we have the `/__front-commerce/test/events` endpoint for this. see: https://magento2.remixed.front-commerce.app/__front-commerce/test/events
